Hello, and welcome to the lecture on Spark ql,
the R D F Query language. Um,
this lecture is based on b Sharon's book, A Learning Spark,
ql, which I can suggest everybody who want to learn sparkle. Uh,
but the lecture is very much applied,
applied to a specific knowledge graph, uh, which, uh,
we called it catalog because it is mainly about IT
services in an organization. Now, lectures, again,
divided in several tasks.
And let's start with introducing our application domain,
the, uh, IT catalog knowledge graph, our application.
Um, when we decided to, uh,
build such a knowledge graph based application,
we had the situation that at that the university's IT
services are provided by a variety of internal and external
providers, and the information about the access,
the descriptions of the services, the support levels, and so on,
they are distributed across different media.
So end users lack orientation and sometimes could not find the,
uh, necessary information.
And we thought it might be a good idea to have a solution,
which is a user friendly access platform,
which consolidates all information on the organization's IT services.
So end users, um, have a single point of contact.
And the idea was because it was a prototypical project,
it was not, uh, going productive at the university.
So the idea was that the data might be annotated downstream by the
providers. So, uh, when something is changing the data,
they can it do easily. And then, uh, they use for that,
uh, our knowledge graphs, schema, and the application.
Um, the application becomes, uh,
really, uh, up to time every time. So this was a kind of, um,
prototypical development and idea, but nevertheless,
we built the application and the application is, um,
really nice and we can use it as an application
case, as a use case for, um,
demonstrating the power of, uh,
sparkle and also demonstrating the power of knowledge graph based
structures. So before we, uh,
will have a look on the application itself, I want to introduce,
uh, the knowledge schema of that application for modeling
this. Um, yeah, this graph, I did not use the,
um, the concept mapping tool. I did it with, uh,
let's say, um, basic tools,
which also are provided by, um, PowerPoint.
So, um, first let's, um,
explain the color coding. You see here used, um,
four or even five different colors,
all elements which are in red color. So it's, uh, the notes,
service role, quality value organization and person.
They are based on schema org.
And the same applies to the relation, which are in red collar schema.
Agent schema is related to schema member and schema employee.
Um, then we have, uh,
two yellow nodes agent and entity. They stem from,
uh, also a standard vocabulary which was provided,
uh, before schema exists. This are really, uh,
let's, uh, call it, um,
main categories, which we, uh, which we, um,
brought from this, this, uh, vocabulary,
but we only used this, uh, two notes, no, um,
properties or no attributes from that vocabulary.
Um, from another vocabulary, which is, you can say a little bit,
uh, ancient or, or, uh, the, uh,
the oldest one of what we use is fav, um,
is deciphered as friend of a friend.
So this was one of the basic vocabularies when web semantics starts.
Um, this was a vocabulary to support, um,
annotating of so-called social graphs. Yeah, you can, um,
you can model, um,
person in their relations and their, uh,
contact data and also, uh,
some documents which they, um, provide, for instance,
a CV or things like that. Uh, when I, um, would model,
um, such, uh, schema today, um,
I really would not use a four page document because in
schema.org we have, uh, similar notes, similar classes,
but this is, as I told you, um, not built today.
It was built, um, I think, uh, eight or nine years ago.
And it's basically, um, in the same way, uh,
therefore I didn't change the schema.
And then we have this, uh, green boxes, the green notes,
and these are proprietary or customary notes,
which we could not take from, um, existing vocabulary,
and therefore we have to define, we have to declare them theirselves.
Um, here you can see the IT assets, uh,
which are a subclass of entity, and you can see the service categories,
lifecycle stages, um, and such aspects of, uh,
services as priority and criticality.
Um,
you can see here some arrows with an empty
triangle arrow head, uh,
which you might know for instance from a U M L, um,
class diagrams. And this arrows mean here,
subclass of, yeah. So, uh,
the role is a subclass of a agent and also organization
are subclass of agents and person are subclass of agents,
and you have the same, uh, for service category.
There you have the subclasses catalog category, subject category,
and lifecycle stages. All other, um,
arrows or all other edges, they are labeled with, um,
their, uh, semantic, um, with their, uh,
according property. Um,
these are in this case all relations. Okay. And then,
uh, the last we have, um,
these gray boxes and the gray boxes represent, uh,
named individuals. So in
all service categories, uh,
in these both types of service categories,
the catalog category and the subject category, we have, um,
different types of category and they,
we understand as a named individuals business, um,
business, uh, catalog. We have an infrastructure catalog, an operational,
and a public catalog. And the same we used for, uh,
the priority and the criticality. Um, I didn't it, um,
specialize in,
in the model because the model would become a little
bit, uh, overwhelming and, uh, for priority and criticality.
The instantiations, uh,
are a kind of standard based, yes, you have low priority,
middle priority, and high priority, and the same to criticality.
So this is the schema, um, which lays, uh,
as a foundation of our knowledge graph and also for the application.
So some words do the, uh, architecture of the, um,
it cut application is a three tier app, um,
architecture. Uh, at the base you has the, uh,
sparkle, uh, or the triple store with the sparkle endpoint.
The triple store is the same Apache chain of Zeki server,
which I asked you to install on your local machines. Um,
and, uh, they are connected, uh, via rest, uh,
a p i, um, a p i. And, um,
then the middle tier, uh, the application tier, um,
they implies, uh, the business logic.
It is programmed with the help of P H P.
And if you are interested in, you can look up the code, uh,
on our GitHub site. And, uh, finally, uh,
the presentation tier is the web interface.
And the web interface can also be, um,
assessed via the, uh, link you see here. Unfortunately,
this, uh, application is on one of our, um,
university, um, service. And, um,
sometime is it, it is, um, accessible, sometimes not. So yeah,
maybe you try and it'll not work, but I hope today it'll work.
Okay. What you see here is the,
uh, the start page, uh,
of our application and a detailed page,
but I will switch to the application itself to,
uh, show it here in more detail.
I think it's here.
Okay, so you can see it here.
The application is now in two languages accessible.
You can change here, um, between English and German.
I at the moment have, uh, chosen, uh, English language.
You can see here the, um, nine, no, not nine,
eight categories, which we all already saw in our, uh,
graph diagram. And, uh, you can see which, uh,
number of services you have in each category. For instance,
let's take the teaching platform services. There are three, uh,
service, you can go in depth in that service.
And then you see all the available, uh,
educational services. Uh,
and what is the most usable is the teaching platform
Moodle. And when you click here, then you get, uh,
the profile of that service.
You can see again the name of the service. You can, uh,
here, um, get information in which, uh,
category, uh, or or to which other, um, no,
wait a moment. Yeah. Uh, to which category it, um,
uh, in, in which category it is. Um, yeah, put, so, uh,
you can see that the teaching platform, we, um, opened it as, uh,
teaching platforms,
but it's also part of the element of the information
services. So we have no, um, no,
let's say total, uh, uniformity or total identity with,
um, um, with respect to the service category.
Um, here on the top, you can see the status of the service.
This service is in operation. We have all,
in all five, uh,
different statuses from planning to implementation in
operation, in relief and shutdown. Then,
then you get, uh, some, uh, information description of the service. If, uh,
possible you get an U R L, you can see here which,
uh, other services are connected. Um, with that,
yeah, are in relation. Relevant, I think is not really,
um, correct, it not, it must be related services,
not relevant, but related services.
And then you see some contact information,
which might be interesting if you have some problems with the service to, um,
contact, uh, uh,
a concrete person or a concrete organization.
We also thought it might be a good idea to have a direct link to a
service desk. And, uh,
you can also get information about a service features for whom,
um, they are available and which devices are supported.
And, uh, also about the characteristics or the rating of the service, um,
about the criticality and the priority and what's interesting.
And what does the specific, um, um,
characteristic or specific feature of such, uh, knowledge graph based, um,
applications is that all of the,
all of the characteristics, the information,
what you get about the services, they are, uh,
organized or they works as links. So for instance, when you see here that,
uh, the data center is responsible for that service,
and I click on that link,
then I will get a list of all services for which the data
center is responsible,
or even if I click on the person which is responsible for that concrete service,
then I will get a le list of services for, um,
for which these, this person is available. Here you have, uh, this, um,
information, um, buttons or the,
the info buttons, and you can get here the, um,
descriptions or comments, which are, um,
which explains a little bit what, uh, everything means here.
And this is also taken from the knowledge graph. That information,
the same applies to this aspect,
high criticality or high priority. When I click here,
I, I will just do it, uh, for in a moment. Then you get, again, a list of, uh,
all services which are of high criticality or even high,
um, um, priority. The same comes to here,
all these related services. You can click on related services and get direct,
uh, to that service. Yeah. And, um, yeah,
let's take one of that links when I click here on students.
Then I get, as I, uh, promised you a list, you,
you come to a search site where you get all the lists,
which are available for students.
And you can also proceed here in a direct, um,
how it's called, uh, in navigation about, uh, different categories.
And you see here, for instance,
the different providers we have for the different services,
and you see also how many services, uh, these providers are,
um, accountable for and so on and so on. So this is, um,
the, the application, ah, let's look here at this, um,
at this, um, menu bar here you have, uh, other,
yeah, features accessible. Um, for instance,
this funny map where all the relations between the services
are visualized with this, uh, connection map or again,
you can go to reports and then you can, um,
concrete reports, um, yeah, access these reports,
for instance, uh, services for employees and so on and so on.
So it's more or less the same we already saw, uh,
by clicking on the different links, but in a little bit other,
um, in another interface put. Okay,
so thank you for that introduction.